LAYA API Key: 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

Step 1: Setting up Python
Install Python
To use the OpenAI Python library, you will need to ensure you have Python installed. Some computers come with Python pre-installed while others require that you set it up yourself. To test if you have Python installed, you can navigate to your Terminal or Command line:

MacOS: 
Open Terminal: You can find it in the Applications folder or search for it using Spotlight (Command + Space).
Windows: 
Open Command Prompt: You can find it by searching "cmd" in the start menu.
Next, enter the word python and then press return/enter. If you enter into the Python interpreter, then you have Python installed on your computer already and you can go to the next step. If you get an error message that says something like "Error: command python not found", you likely need to install Python and make it available in your terminal / command line.

To download Python, head to the official Python website and download the latest version. To use the OpenAI Python library, you need at least Python 3.7.1 or newer. If you are installing Python for the first time, you can follow the official Python installation guide for beginners.

Step 2: Set up a virtual environment
Once you have Python installed, it is a good practice to create a virtual python environment to install the OpenAI Python library. Virtual environments provide a clean working space for your Python packages to be installed so that you do not have conflicts with other libraries you install for other projects. You are not required to use a virtual environment, so skip to step 3 if you do not want to set one up.

To create a virtual environment, Python supplies a built in venv module which provides the basic functionality needed for the virtual environment. Running the command below will create a virtual environment named "openai-env" inside the current folder you have selected in your terminal / command line:

python -m venv openai-env
Once you’ve created the virtual environment, you need to activate it. 

On Windows, run:

openai-env\Scripts\activate

On Unix or MacOS, run:

source openai-env/bin/activate

You should see the terminal / command line interface change slightly after you active the virtual environment, it should now show "openai-env" to the left of the cursor input section. For more details on working wit virtual environments, please refer to the official Python documentation.

Step 3: Install the OpenAI Python library
Once you have Python 3.7.1 or newer installed and (optionally) set up a virtual environment, the OpenAI Python library can be installed. From the terminal / command line, run:

pip install --upgrade openai

Once this completes, running pip list will show you the Python libraries you have installed in your current environment, which should confirm that the OpenAI Python library was successfully installed.

Step 4: Set up your API key
LAYA API Key: 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

Set up your API key for all projects
The main advantage to making your API key accessible for all projects is that the Python library will automatically detect it and use it without having to write any code.

MacOS
Open Terminal: You can find it in the Applications folder or search for it using Spotlight (Command + Space).

Edit Bash Profile: Use the command nano ~/.bash_profile or nano ~/.zshrc (for newer MacOS versions) to open the profile file in a text editor.

Add Environment Variable: In the editor, add the line below, replacing your-api-key-here with your actual API key:

export OPENAI_API_KEY='your-api-key-here'
Save and Exit: Press Ctrl+O to write the changes, followed by Ctrl+X to close the editor.

Load Your Profile: Use the command source ~/.bash_profile or source ~/.zshrc to load the updated profile.

Verification: Verify the setup by typing echo $OPENAI_API_KEY in the terminal. It should display your API key.

Windows
Open Command Prompt: You can find it by searching "cmd" in the start menu.

Set environment variable in the current session: To set the environment variable in the current session, use the command below, replacing your-api-key-here with your actual API key:

setx OPENAI_API_KEY "your-api-key-here"
This command will set the OPENAI_API_KEY environment variable for the current session.

Permanent setup: To make the setup permanent, add the variable through the system properties as follows:

Right-click on 'This PC' or 'My Computer' and select 'Properties'.
Click on 'Advanced system settings'.
Click the 'Environment Variables' button.
In the 'System variables' section, click 'New...' and enter OPENAI_API_KEY as the variable name and your API key as the variable value.
Verification: To verify the setup, reopen the command prompt and type the command below. It should display your API key: echo %OPENAI_API_KEY%
